when I was writing my first book I
concluded in the book that the CIA is
nothing more than nothing less than the
secret political police of international
policy that is the foreign policy of the
United States and it means the formation
of death squads it means the
disappearances getting about tens of
thousands during the 1960's everything
is it had a very special determined that
is a particular task and that task is
what I was doing during those twelve
years I was in the CIA
you
my first contact the CIA came as i was
finishing my undergraduate students in
the university in the united states this
is 1956 i turned down because the study
well which i did at the university of
florida
I have some free time in january
nineteen fifty-seven so friggin i came
to visit for the first time I was here
for a week or ten days ready and i'll
get back to the station and I start
thinking about working places like this
for CIA and working this is like a
minute pretty CIA with the exotic
culture and so forth in secret
operations against the communists big
thing in those days is the mid-nineteen
fifties and so I wrote to this day
asking to be reconsidered six months
later I was in the CIA
when I was in the CIA in the 1960s we
were involved in the overthrow of their
civilian governments and the
installation of military dictatorship
had been a very interesting and
progressive political development in
Guatemala from 1948 with the other
survey military dictatorships and the
installation of democratic governments
for the first time ever in Guatemala
industry they carried out literacy
campaigns and they tried to install and
very reform program the effective the
lens of the United Fruit Company vixen
Barton it happened that the law firm of
the hundred united fruit company in
Boston it improved at partners John
Foster Dulles who was then the Secretary
of State and his brother Allen Dulles
was in the director of CIA together on
path United Fruit baby this Eisenhower
to overthrow the oppressive government
what amount which they did he's the i8
here in 1954
from the very beginning President Truman
determined if the CIA would be involved
also in the interference and internal
political affairs of other countries has
been undertaken by the United States and
many countries around the world
irregular and guerrilla warfare also has
that purpose and it was seen very
clearly for example in Nicaragua in the
1980s that the amount of suffering and
damage that the CIA created and
supported Congress had caused throughout
the countryside in Nicaragua eventually
in the nineteen ninety lections
Nicaraguans voted for leaf and voted in
the traditional political forces that
had existed since before the Sun in East
Movement had taken over that has not
happened in
in you belong so llama species for the
entire period after the beginning of the
revolutionary process then 1959 Cuba has
been the victim of a uncleared war which
has taken many different forms there has
been terrorism in large amounts there
has been military raids there have been
attacks from you see there has been
sabotage campaigns you can ask the
question why were the United States do
this why wouldn't they just let leave
Cuba alone to develop its own political
forum in its own society I have to
meddle in this country's affairs and try
to destroy this revolutionist through
ten presidencies at least in the United
States
to understand this I think briefly you
have to go back to the period of the
independence movements in Latin America
once you've recall that the latin
american revolutionary movements for
their independence from spain occurred
during the very roughly from 1810 to
1820 about 80 to explain all of Latin
America safe Cuba and Puerto Rico plus
the British and the French and the Dutch
colonies had obtained their independent
think that that time was opposed to the
in defense of you but because they were
afraid if you will come to come another
black Republic as he had done at the end
of the 18th century in the beginning of
the 19th century during the 1840s 50s
and 60s when the abolitionist movement
in the United States had taken hold
there was of course crunch over whether
Cuba if it came into the Republic should
be a slave state or a non c'è state and
one can say that every president since
Jefferson all through the 19th century
tried to take control of Cuban one way
or another but the United States
obsession with Cuba si strategic island
I'm underbelly of the United States
that's your engines to the Gulf and the
interests of the Caribbean meant that
Cuba was essential for US national
security and this has been the doctor
through these years
this one ended in january of 1959 when
the united states backed Batista
military government was overthrown one
has to remember that this Batista
government from 1952 until the end of
nineteen fifty-eight was one of the
nastiest of the nasty dictatorships
throughout Latin America that the United
States has supported the United States
believe aster believes that it has a
role to play here that people should be
under the control of the United States